Welcome back.
Let's now go over the solutions for the simple project.
Keep in mind there's many ways you could have approached this.
This is just one example solution.
Let's get started.
All right here I am at my text editor.
I've gone ahead and copied and pasted the skeleton code from the simple project that you were given
to start off with.
We have some things to do here such as filling out the view functions for the index page and the report
page.
We're going to first set up our templates.
I'm just going to quickly create some new files here so I'll say underneath templates.
New file will start off with Bates thought HVM T.M..
This is where navigation bar is going to go and we're going to create two more files here.
One will say is the index page index the h t m l and then the other one will say this is the report
page.
So will go ahead and call this something like.
Report the HTL essentially saying what we passed as far as the requirements.
Lets start off by filling out our Based on each team l file and I'm actually going to copy and paste
this from our notes or a provided solution may collapse this bar.
So just copy and paste this but it's actually nothing we haven't seen before.
It's essentially the links to bootstrap over here on the top.
I set the title to Papy years in namecheck and then I set a navigation bar appear essentially the same
navigation bar.
The only thing to note is that I have a pro forma index page linking to home page as the brand.
So that's the home page button on the brand page and then we see here we have a content block and an
end block.
So I'm going to be able to extend my base HTL and call these blocks.
Let's save that.
So our main base that each symbol is done.
Let's set up our index page so come over here to my index page and I'll say extends and I'm extending
from baseline h T.M. that will color block content and then we want to insert some things here.
So I set up a Jumbotron to hold everything and this Jumbotron you can add as much instruction as you
want but basically I'm going to say please provide a username that meets requirements so I won't bother
to listen the requirements here since we already talked about that in the previous lecture.
Instead we'll move on to focus on the form so we need to create a form here.
We'll see form and I won't bother giving a class and we can't remove method here.
The thing I want to say for the action is to go for the report Yoro.
So we will say inside of this your L for and then we'll passen report.
So once the person hits submit it'll take him to that report function.
Let's create a simple label will say this label is for username and then the actual label just say username
and then we want two inputs one for the text that the user name.
So we'll say this is user name doesn't need to have a value here.
And then finally will have a submit button so will say input type is submit an doesn't need to have
a name here.
We'll go ahead and give a value of submit form.
All right.
So that's our form ready to go.
The solution has some extra explanation as far as what the requirements are.
But since we are to discuss those we don't really need them here.
And then the report that each team page is actually going to be some more logic to go into this report
page.
So let's first sync up and link the index page by coming back to our basic thought py file.
So there's the home page and it should have the form to start by setting up my imports will say here
at the very top.
From flask import and I'm going to need flask.
Gonna need to render some templates and then I'm also going to need to use request to actually grab
the information from the form that the user provides.
Then will say app is equal to flask and I will pass in my name variable there and then for the index.
I'm just going to return render a template and I will render my index thought h HTML or whatever you
happen to call your index that it's HTML file.
Ok so now I have this page which is for reporting after the form.
So here is where I'm going to need to actually have some conditions check to see if they're met and
then I'm going to send back some sort of code to my template.
So let's start filling this out.
Notice there's a lot of different hints here.
How to check if lower case letters exist or how to check if the last letter is an integer.
So lots of different options there.
Again there is essentially an infinite number of ways you could done this report check.
I'm going to clear all this information first and set up the logic so I know I have three conditions
would be good is to have three booleans that start each as false and then we send them back to the template
and if they're all true then we can actually start making some logic here.
So we'll say lower letter is equal to false.
So that's the lower letter check and we'll have a very similar one for upper letter so that equals a
false and then we want to make sure it ends and the numbers will say numb and.
And that's equal to false.
Next we want to actually grab the username from the submission of the form so I will set username equal
to request dot ARGs that get Remember I called it user name over here on my index page.
I have the user names.
That's what I want to grab and then once I grab that username I can begin doing those checks and the
logic was actually shown in those links.
Again he did have to do it this way.
This was just if he did a quick stack overflow of how to check of lower case letters exist or upper
case it would have given you this code right here.
So we can check if any see is the lower for C in username and what this is doing.
It's essentially just saying all right C is not lower.
So is this character lowercase for every character in the username and check if any of them are true.
This is a more advanced one liner way of doing this.
There are lots of other ways you could done this.
For instance you could have said a four letter in user name if letter dot lower is equal to letter then
you know you have a matching lowercase.
So you have a lowercase there somewhere.
So that's another way you could done it lots lots of different ways.
So don't worry too much if this logic doesn't make sense to you and you for your own logic there are
a ton of different ways you can approach this.
So I just want to make that clear.
And that upper letter is actually the same as this instead of lower.
You say is upper again essentially just a simple Google search would have gotten you those stack overflow
links.
There were hints and then for checking if the last character is an integer.
One way to do that is grab the last item of username and then say is it OK.
So all of these return back booleans in one liners.
You did have to do in one line.
This is just kind of one of the more efficient ways to do these checks by leveraging stack overflow
answers that have already shown us how to do the work that we want to check if they're all true.
So I will say a variable called Report to check if all these booleans are true meaning will say lower
letter and upper letter and none end because remember the result of all of these is that they're going
to be true and false.
So this is basically asking Are all of these Blands now equal to true.
They start all as false and then after the user provides their user name we do the checks for lower
letter upper letter and end and then we decide is report equal to all true.
Then we can finally render a template soul return rendered template and we're going to pass in our report
that each T.M. And let's send some stuff back.
We'll start off by sending back a report.
So whether or not it passed all the cases and then if it didn't pass the cases we can send back reports
on lower letter upper letter and them end to tell the user which use cases than in past.
So say lower is equal to lower letter than we'll say upper is equal to upper letter and we'll say numb
and physical to numb and all right.
Save that.
So now we're sending back our full report to the template as well as the individual use cases or requirements
that it did or did not pass.
So now let's go back to our report that each team EL are going to extend from baseline each.
And let's make sure we did that in our index page.
Yes we did.
Perfect.
And let's set up our block.
So I'll say block and then content.
I'm going to set up a Jumbotron to kind of keep the same look and feel throughout the pages and then
we'll say Let's check your username and this is where we begin to start using that control flow logic
of our templating so we can say if and then I have an automatic and if
so over here I'm going to say if reports remember a report is checking if all the conditions are true.
I'm going to just say paragraph your user name passed all checks
and then here are going to have an L statement else.
That means some of the cases did not actually pass.
So let's go ahead and build a bullet list of what cases were not passed.
So we're going to have in other if it's all say if not lower
than we can say just a list item here you did not use a lowercase letter
and then we're going to do this for essentially each of the conditions.
So let's copy this and paste this.
So if not upper remember repassing in lower and upper if we go back to they start pi.
That's the actual parameters are passing over here.
So say if not upper You did not use an uppercase letter.
And then finally over here if not numb and we'll say you did not and then a number
there we go.
So this will build out a bulleted list for each of these three conditions that were not passed.
Again lots of different ways could have done this if you didn't want to use the not here you could have
just set the reverse boolean values for a lower upper end to say something like If lower than do that.
Or if Upperton do that.
So keep that in mind lots of different ways to do that.
Then finally we have an end.
If this else Lotus is going after my unordered list here I'm going to zoom out just a little bit so
we can see the whole page.
So let me zoom at just tiny bit more.
We have a jumbotron.
We're checking the user name and saying if the report fully passed that we have all the checks else
then we're going to build out list items for each condition.
So that's for the lower case condition upper case condition and name and condition.
OK.
So let's save this and make sure it all works out for us.
We'll say Python basic about pi and looks like I have a typo somewhere.
And I say app not the fine.
So let's go back to basics not pi.
I still need to fill in this.
So looks like I just did this say over here.
App run debug equals.
True.
That should help us debug this case.
I made any errors.
Let's run this again.
Let's make sure we set our app.
All right.
Our app is set.
So let's save those changes.
Run this again.
All right.
So it looks like it's running in my browser.
Let me bring in my browser make sure we don't have any issues going to bring this in.
I'm a little zoomed in here so please provide a username that meets requirements.
Let's try it out.
First start off with a name that doesn't meet the requirements for uppercase or the number and then
hit submit form said you do not use an uppercase letter is not in the number.
Go back to the home page.
Let's try all uppercase.
You don't use a lowercase in a number.
Let's finally try one that works.
So we'll do rufous one hit submit form and it says Let's check your user name user name passed all the
checks.
All right.
And that's really all there was to it.
Again really combining a lot of the ideas that we just talked about in the templates.
Talking about connecting the templates of rendered template talking about actually grabbing requests
are elements from the form then doing some logic inside of our flask application.
Returning back variables and then also template control flow.
So essentially combine all the ideas of what we just talked about throughout the previous lectures of
the template.
Now it's time to move on to the next section of the course where we talk about forms.
If we look back at the forms we're building out here we're still building out forms that H Tim L and
there's many libraries in flask that actually allow us to leverage the power of Python to automatically
build out forms in our flask application and send out simpler templating instructions to our HTL templates.
That's mainly we're going to be talking about in the next section.
So I'm excited to get started with it.
We'll see you there.